[All Hosts] (testing) How to use the Office mocking library (#3079)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/unit-testing.md

- The Office JavaScript APIs must initialize in a webview control in the context of an Office application (Excel, Word, etc.), so they cannot be loaded in the process in which unit tests run on your development computer.
- Some unit testing frameworks require that mock objects emulate all the members of the object type that is being mocked, which isn't feasible for the Office JavaScript APIs because some object types have over a hundred members.
- Unit testing frameworks are stateless, which makes it difficult to test the [application-specific APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md#api-models) in the Office JavaScript APIs, because they have methods [load()](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#load) and [sync()](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#sync) that must be called in a particular order relative to other functions and to each other.

> To solve these problems, we have created a library to simplify the creation of mock Office objects in unit tests: [Office-Addin-Mock](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

Reviewer: I think it is better for this link to redirect to the [Npm page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/office-addin-mock), as I think it is cleaner and easier to see how to install right away.

> The library doesn't depend on the Office JavaScript APIs and it can be used with any JavaScript unit testing framework, including the following among others:

Author: Rewrote the first and 3rd bullets. Consulting with SMEs about the middle one.

> The library doesn't depend on the Office JavaScript APIs and it can be used with any JavaScript unit testing framework, including the following among others:

Author: Deleted middle bullet. What it referred to is not really anything to do with the Office-Addin-Mock.

- [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/workflows/unit-testing)
- [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/)

The examples in this article use the Jest framework. There are examples using the Mocha framework and samples written in TypeScript at [the library's home page](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

## Prerequisites

This article assumes that you are familiar with the basic concepts of unit testing and mocking, and that you have some experience with a unit testing framework.

> [!TIP]
> If you are working with Visual Studio, see the article [Unit testing JavaScript and TypeScript in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/javascript/unit-testing-javascript-with-visual-studio.md).

## Install the tool

To install the library open a command prompt, navigate to the root of your add-in project, and then enter the following command:

```command&nbsp;line
npm install office-addin-mock --save-dev
```

## Basic usage

1. Require (or import) the library to your test file. The following code is an example:

   ```javascript
   const OfficeMockObject = require("office-addin-mock");
   ```

> 1. Require (or import) the module that contains the add-in function that you want to test. The following is an example that assumes your test file is in a subfolder the folder with your add-in's code files:

Reviewer 2: I think you mean " test file is in a subfolder **of** the folder with"

I think it's more common practice to have test files in a sibling folder rather than a sub folder (like source/code.js and test/code.test.js), but I'm not certain of that.

   ```

1. Create a data object that has the properties and subproperties that you need to mock to test the function. The following is an example of an object that mocks the Excel [Workbook.range.address](/javascript/api/excel/excel.range#address) property and the [Workbook.getSelectedRange](/javascript/api/excel/excel.workbook#getSelectedRange__) method. This isn't the final mock object. Think of it as a seed object that is used by `OfficeMockObject` to create the final mock object.

   ```javascript
   const mockData = {
     workbook: {
       range: {
         address: "C2:G3",
       },
       getSelectedRange: function () {
         return this.range;
       },
     },
   };
   ```

1. Pass the data object to the `OfficeMockObject` constructor. Note the following about the returned `OfficeMockObject` object:

   - It is a simplified mock of an [OfficeExtension.ClientRequestContext](/javascript/api/office/officeextension.clientrequestcontext) object. (It is also possible to mock a host object, such as [Excel](/javascript/api/excel) or [Word](/javascript/api/word). For an example, see [Mocking a host object](#mocking-a-host-object).)

>    - The mock object has all the members of the data object and also has mock `load()` and `sync()` methods.

Reviewer: I found this wording a little weird. Can we do: "and also has mock implementations of `load()` and `sync()` methods." or "and also has already implemented the 'load()' and 'sync()' methods." or something similar?

   - The mock object will mimic crucial error behavior of the `ClientRequestContext` object. For example, if the Office API you are testing tries to read a property without first loading the property and calling `sync()`, then the test will fail with an error similar to what would be thrown in production runtime: "Error, property not loaded".

   ```javascript

>    const contextMock = new OfficeMockObject.OfficeMockObject(mockData);

Reviewer 3: I didn't see this creation pattern in the linked docs. I saw `const wordMock = new officeAddinMock.OfficeMockObject(WordMockData);` and `const officeMock = new OfficeMockObject(PowerPointMockData);`. This confused me. Should that first example have a capital "O"?

Author: My bad. I forgot to add the following to the PR description. I'll add it now.

NOTE TO REVIEWERS: There will be cross-links between this article and the Readme of the repo for Office-Addin-Mock. So, the content of the two has to be coordinated and made consistent. There's no practical way to do that until after this article is close to finalized. Then there will be a separate PR for the the Readme. Nothing will be published until both documents are done and mutually consistent.

   ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Full reference documentation for the `OfficeMockObject` type is at [Office-Addin-Mock](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

> 1. In the syntax of your test framework, add a test of the function, but use the `OfficeMockObject` object in place of the object that it mocks, in this case the `ClientRequestContext` object. The following continues the example in Jest. This example test assumes that the add-in function that is being tested is called `getSelectedRangeAddress`, that it takes a `ClientRequestContext` object as a parameter, and that it is intended to return the address of the currently selected range. The full example is at [Mocking a ClientRequestContext object](#mocking-a-clientrequestcontext-object).

Reviewer: "being tested is called" -> "being tested called"

Reviewer 2: I think it's right as is.

Author: I agree with millerds. I think adding the "is" makes the whole sentence ungrammatical.

> 1. In the syntax of your test framework, add a test of the function, but use the `OfficeMockObject` object in place of the object that it mocks, in this case the `ClientRequestContext` object. The following continues the example in Jest. This example test assumes that the add-in function that is being tested is called `getSelectedRangeAddress`, that it takes a `ClientRequestContext` object as a parameter, and that it is intended to return the address of the currently selected range. The full example is at [Mocking a ClientRequestContext object](#mocking-a-clientrequestcontext-object).

Reviewer 3: Small suggestion to help people keep context. This might go against style guidelines, so grain of salt and all that.
```suggestion
1. In the syntax of your test framework, add a test of the function, but use the `OfficeMockObject` object in place of the object that it mocks, in this case the `ClientRequestContext` object. The following continues the example in Jest. This example test assumes that the add-in function that is being tested is called `getSelectedRangeAddress`, that it takes a `ClientRequestContext` object as a parameter, and that it is intended to return the address of the currently selected range. The full example is [later in this article](#mocking-a-clientrequestcontext-object).
```

   ```javascript
   test("getSelectedRangeAddress should return the address of the range", async function () {
     expect(await getSelectedRangeAddress(contextMock)).toBe("C2:G3");
   });
   ```

1. Run the test in accordance with documentation of the test framework and your development tools and task runner. Typically, there is a package.json file with a script that executes the test framework. For example, if Jest is the framework, the package.json would contain the following:

   ```json
   "scripts": {
     "test": "jest",
     -- other scripts omitted --  
   }
   ```

   To run the test, enter the following in a command prompt in the root of the project.

   ```command&nbsp;line
   npm test
   ```

> ## Examples

Author: > What do you think about moving these example setup steps above the "Basic usage" section? I think that preempts questions like "what test file do I add the `require` statement to". It also gets people to a working version of unit tests faster.

I'm not keen on separating the example setup from the Examples section. Understanding what a test file is is part of the prerequisites. To address your concerns, I've added info to the Prerequisites section and the first step of the Basic usage section.

1. Create an Office add-in project for the appropriate Office host application (for example, Excel or Word). One way to do this quickly is to use the [Yo Office tool](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office).
1. In the root of the project, [install Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started).
1. [Install the office-addin-mock tool](#install-the-tool).
1. Create a file exactly like the first file in the example and add it to the folder that contains the project's other source files, often called `\src`.
1. Create a subfolder to the source file folder and give it an appropriate name, such as `\tests`.
1. Create a file exactly like the test file in the example and add it to the subfolder.
1. Add a `test` script to the package.json file, and then run the test, as described in [Basic usage](#basic-usage).

### Mocking the Office Common APIs

> This example assumes an Office add-in for any host that supports the Office Common APIs (for example, Excel, PowerPoint, or Word). The add-in has one of its features in a file named `my-common-api-add-in-feature.js`. The following shows the contents of the file. The `addHelloWorldText` function sets the text "Hello World!" to whatever is currently selected in the document; for example; a range in Word, or a cell in Excel, or a text box in PowerPoint.

Reviewer 3: Consider linking to our definition of the common object model.
```suggestion
This example assumes an Office add-in for any host that supports the [Office Common APIs](../develop/office-javascript-api-object-model.md) (for example, Excel, PowerPoint, or Word). The add-in has one of its features in a file named `my-common-api-add-in-feature.js`. The following shows the contents of the file. The `addHelloWorldText` function sets the text "Hello World!" to whatever is currently selected in the document; for example; a range in Word, or a cell in Excel, or a text box in PowerPoint.
```

```javascript
const myCommonAPIAddinFeature = {

    addHelloWorldText: async () => {
        const options = { coercionType: Office.CoercionType.Text };
        await Office.context.document.setSelectedDataAsync("Hello World!", options);
    }
}
  
module.exports = myCommonAPIAddinFeature;
```

The test file, named `my-common-api-add-in-feature.test.js` is in a subfolder, relative to the location of the add-in code file. The following shows the contents of the file. Note that the top level property is `context`, an [Office.Context](/javascript/api/office/office.context) object, so the object that is being mocked is the parent of this property: an [Office](/javascript/api/office) object. Note the following about this code:

- The `OfficeMockObject` constructor does *not* add all of the Office enum classes to the mock `Office` object, so the `CoercionType.Text` value that is referenced in the add-in method must be added explicitly in the seed object.
- Because the Office JavaScript APIs library isn't loaded in the node process, the `Office` object that is referenced in the add-in code must be declared and initialized.

```javascript

> const OfficeMockObject = require("office-addin-mock");

Reviewer: If you are using this `require` syntax, I think is it would be better to rename this variable to `OfficeAddinMock` in order for the constructor call later be: `OfficeAddinMock.OfficeMockObject` instead of  `OfficeMockObject.OfficeMockObject`. I think it will make the code cleaner to read.
This can also be applied to other parts of the article where this `require` call is made.

  - It doesn't call a *Host*.`run` method, such as [Excel.run](/javascript/api/excel#Excel_run_batch_).
  - It doesn't reference any other direct property or method of a *Host* object.

- Mock a *Host* object, such as [Excel](/javascript/api/excel) or [Word](/javascript/api/word). Do this when the preceding option isn't possible.

Examples of both types of tests are in the subsections below.

#### Mocking a ClientRequestContext object

This example assumes an Excel add-in that has one of its features in a file named `my-excel-add-in-feature.js`. The following shows the contents of the file. Note that the `getSelectedRangeAddress` is a helper method that is called inside the callback that is passed to `Excel.run`.

```javascript
const myExcelAddinFeature = {
    
    getSelectedRangeAddress: async (context) => {
        const range = context.workbook.getSelectedRange();      
        range.load("address");

        await context.sync();
      
        return range.address;
    }
}

module.exports = myExcelAddinFeature;
```

> The test file, named `my-excel-add-in-feature.test.js` is in a subfolder, relative to the location of the add-in code file. The following shows the contents of the file. Note that the top level property is `workbook`, so the object that is being mocked is the parent of an `Excel.workbook`: a `ClientRequestContext` object.

Reviewer 3: I believe "an `Excel.workbook`" should either be "an `Excel.Workbook`" (if we're referring to the object type) or "`Excel.workbook`" (if we're referring to the host-object property).

  });

  test("text of paragraph", async function () {
    await myWordAddinFeature.insertBlueParagraph();
    expect(wordMock.context.document.body.paragraph.text).toBe("Hello World");
  });
})
```

## Adding mock objects, properties, and methods dynamically when testing

In some scenarios, efficient testing requires that mock objects be created or modified at runtime; that is, while the tests are running. The following are examples:

- The function that is being tested behaves differently when called a second time, from how it behaves when first called. You need to first test the function with one mock object, then change this mock object and test the function again with the changed mock object.
- You need to test a function against multiple arguments quickly. For example, you need to test a function with a mock object that has a color property and then test the function again with a mock object that has a text property, but is otherwise identical to the original mock object.

The `OfficeMockObject` has three methods to help in these scenarios.

- `OfficeMockObject.setMock` adds a property and value to a `OfficeMockObject` object. The following is an example:

    ```javascript

>     rangeMock.setMock("address", "G6:K9")`;

Reviewer: There is a "`" in the end of this code that needs to be removed.

    ```

- `OfficeMockObject.addMockFunction` adds a mock function to a `OfficeMockObject` object. If the function parameter isn't used, an empty function is created. The following is an example:

    ```javascript
    workbookMock.addMockFunction("getSelectedRange", function () { 
      const range = {
        address: "B2:G5",
      };
      return range;
    });
    ```

- `OfficeMockObject.addMock` adds a new `OfficeMockObject` object to an existing one and gives it a name. It would have the minimum members that all `OfficeMockObject` have, such as `load` and `sync`. Additional members can be added with the `setMock` and `addMockFunction` methods. The following is an example:

    ```javascript
    workbookMock.addMock("range");
    ```

> [!NOTE]

> > Full reference documentation for the `OfficeMockObject` type is at [Office-Addin-Mock](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

Reviewer 3: There's no "See also" section in this article. I think that would be a good place to add all the external links to the office-addin-mock reference and other unit testing docs (like Jest's docs).

ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Unit testing in Office Add-ins

Unit tests check your add-in's functionality without requiring network or service connections, including connections to the Office application. Unit testing server-side code, and client-side code that does *not* call the [Office JavaScript APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md), is the same in Office Add-ins as it is in any web application, so it requires no special documentation. But client-side code that calls the Office JavaScript APIs is challenging to test. To solve these problems, we have created a library to simplify the creation of mock Office objects in unit tests: [Office-Addin-Mock](https://www.npmjs.com/package/office-addin-mock). The library makes testing easier in the following ways:

- The Office JavaScript APIs must initialize in a webview control in the context of an Office application (Excel, Word, etc.), so they cannot be loaded in the process in which unit tests run on your development computer. The Office-Addin-Mock library can be imported into your test files, which enables the mocking of Office JavaScript APIs inside the node.js process in which the tests run.

> - Unit testing frameworks are stateless, which makes it difficult to test the [application-specific APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md#api-models) in the Office JavaScript APIs, because they have methods [load](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#load) and [sync](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#sync) that must be called in a particular order relative to other functions and to each other. The mock objects that you create with the Office-Addin-Mock library automatically have mock implementations of `load` and `sync`.

Author: I'm researching this with the SMEs.

> - Unit testing frameworks are stateless, which makes it difficult to test the [application-specific APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md#api-models) in the Office JavaScript APIs, because they have methods [load](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#load) and [sync](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#sync) that must be called in a particular order relative to other functions and to each other. The mock objects that you create with the Office-Addin-Mock library automatically have mock implementations of `load` and `sync`.

Author: After consulting with SMEs, I've rewritten this bullet to clarify what it is saying.

- [Jest](https://jestjs.io)
- [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/workflows/unit-testing)
- [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/)

The examples in this article use the Jest framework. There are examples using the Mocha framework and samples written in TypeScript at [the library's home page](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

## Prerequisites

This article assumes that you are familiar with the basic concepts of unit testing and mocking, including what a test file is, and that you have some experience with a unit testing framework.

> [!TIP]
> If you are working with Visual Studio, we recommend that you read the article [Unit testing JavaScript and TypeScript in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/javascript/unit-testing-javascript-with-visual-studio.md) for some basic information about JavaScript unit testing in Visual Studio and then return to this article.

## Install the tool

To install the library open a command prompt, navigate to the root of your add-in project, and then enter the following command.

```command&nbsp;line
npm install office-addin-mock --save-dev
```

## Basic usage

> 1. Your project will have one or more test files. (See the instructions for your test framework and the example test files in Examples(#examples) below.) Require (or import) the library to any test file that has a test of a function that calls the Office JavaScript APIs. The following code is an example:

Author: > A couple suggestions. One is to consider surrounding the "code" terms in code ticks. The other is to make that lead-in line a bit more conversational.

```suggestion
1. Your project will have one or more test files. (See the instructions for your test framework and the example test files in Examples(#examples) below.) Import the library with either the `require` or `import` keyword to any test file that has a test of a function that calls the Office JavaScript APIs, as shown in the following example:
```

   ```javascript
   const OfficeAddinMock = require("office-addin-mock");
   ```

> 1. Require (or import) the module that contains the add-in function that you want to test. The following is an example that assumes your test file is in a subfolder of the folder with your add-in's code files:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Import the module that contains the add-in function that you want to test with either the `require` or `import` keyword. The following is an example that assumes your test file is in a subfolder of the folder with your add-in's code files.
```

   ```javascript
   test("getSelectedRangeAddress should return the address of the range", async function () {
     expect(await getSelectedRangeAddress(contextMock)).toBe("C2:G3");
   });
   ```

1. Run the test in accordance with documentation of the test framework and your development tools and task runner. Typically, there is a package.json file with a script that executes the test framework. For example, if Jest is the framework, the package.json would contain the following:

   ```json
   "scripts": {
     "test": "jest",
     -- other scripts omitted --  
   }
   ```

   To run the test, enter the following in a command prompt in the root of the project.

   ```command&nbsp;line
   npm test
   ```

## Examples

> The examples in this section use Jest with its default settings. These settings support ES5 JavaScript and CommonJS modules. See the [Jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) for how to configure Jest and node.js to support more recent versions of JavaScript, support TypeScript, and support ECMAScript modules. To run any of these examples, take the following steps:

Author: My bad. I was confused by the fact that in Jest you can't define a mock method with arrow syntax. So, I overgeneralized from that. I'll fix.

// Define and initialize the Word object that is called in the insertBlueParagraph function.
global.Word = wordMock;

/* Code that calls the test framework goes below this line. */

// Jest test set
describe("Insert blue paragraph at end tests", () => {

  test("color of paragraph", async function () {
    await myWordAddinFeature.insertBlueParagraph();  
    expect(wordMock.context.document.body.paragraph.font.color).toBe("blue");
  });

  test("text of paragraph", async function () {
    await myWordAddinFeature.insertBlueParagraph();
    expect(wordMock.context.document.body.paragraph.text).toBe("Hello World");
  });
})
```

## Adding mock objects, properties, and methods dynamically when testing

In some scenarios, efficient testing requires that mock objects be created or modified at runtime; that is, while the tests are running. The following are examples:

- The function that is being tested behaves differently when called a second time, from how it behaves when first called. You need to first test the function with one mock object, then change this mock object and test the function again with the changed mock object.

> - You need to test a function against multiple arguments quickly. For example, you need to test a function with a mock object that has a color property and then test the function again with a mock object that has a text property, but is otherwise identical to the original mock object.

Reviewer 3: I'm unclear why "quickly" is a factor in the tests. It seems like the scenario is just editing the same mock object after construction.

The `OfficeMockObject` has three methods to help in these scenarios.

> - `OfficeMockObject.setMock` adds a property and value to a `OfficeMockObject` object. The following is an example:

Reviewer 3: Consider adding some context to the lead-in sentence.
```suggestion
- `OfficeMockObject.setMock` adds a property and value to a `OfficeMockObject` object. The following example adds the `address` property.
```

    ```javascript
    rangeMock.setMock("address", "G6:K9");
    ```

> - `OfficeMockObject.addMockFunction` adds a mock function to a `OfficeMockObject` object. If the function parameter isn't used, an empty function is created. The following is an example:

Reviewer 3: It's a little confusing to read about the empty parameter case before seeing an example that doesn't use it. Maybe pull that line out as a note that follows the sample code?

    ```javascript
    workbookMock.addMockFunction("getSelectedRange", function () { 
      const range = {
        address: "B2:G5",
      };
      return range;
    });
    ```

- `OfficeMockObject.addMock` adds a new `OfficeMockObject` object as a property to an existing one and gives it a name. It would have the minimum members that all `OfficeMockObject` have, such as `load` and `sync`. Additional members can be added with the `setMock` and `addMockFunction` methods. The following is an example:

    ```javascript

>     workbookMock.addMock("range");

Reviewer 3: Is this adding a mock property called "range" to the mock workbook? I'm confused because this doesn't map to my mental picture of the Excel object model.

Unit tests check your add-in's functionality without requiring network or service connections, including connections to the Office application. Unit testing server-side code, and client-side code that does *not* call the [Office JavaScript APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md), is the same in Office Add-ins as it is in any web application, so it requires no special documentation. But client-side code that calls the Office JavaScript APIs is challenging to test. To solve these problems, we have created a library to simplify the creation of mock Office objects in unit tests: [Office-Addin-Mock](https://www.npmjs.com/package/office-addin-mock). The library makes testing easier in the following ways:

- The Office JavaScript APIs must initialize in a webview control in the context of an Office application (Excel, Word, etc.), so they cannot be loaded in the process in which unit tests run on your development computer. The Office-Addin-Mock library can be imported into your test files, which enables the mocking of Office JavaScript APIs inside the node.js process in which the tests run.

> - The [application-specific APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md#api-models) have methods [load](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#load) and [sync](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#sync) that must be called in a particular order relative to other functions and to each other. Moreover, the `load` method must be called with certain parameters depending on what what properties of Office objects are going to be read in by code *later* in the function being tested. But unit testing frameworks are inherently stateless, so they cannot keep a record of whether `load` or `sync` was called or what parameters were passed to `load`. The mock objects that you create with the Office-Addin-Mock library have internal state that keeps track of these things. This enables the mock objects to emulate the error behavior of actual Office objects. For example, if the function that is being tested tries to read a property that was not first passed to `load`, then the test will return an error similar to what Office would return.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The [application-specific APIs](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md#api-models) have [load](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#load) and [sync](../develop/application-specific-api-model.md#sync) methods that must be called in a particular order relative to other functions and to each other. Moreover, the `load` method must be called with certain parameters depending on what what properties of Office objects are going to be read in by code *later* in the function being tested. But unit testing frameworks are inherently stateless, so they cannot keep a record of whether `load` or `sync` was called or what parameters were passed to `load`. The mock objects that you create with the Office-Addin-Mock library have internal state that keeps track of these things. This enables the mock objects to emulate the error behavior of actual Office objects. For example, if the function that is being tested tries to read a property that was not first passed to `load`, then the test will return an error similar to what Office would return.
```

- [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/workflows/unit-testing)
- [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/)

The examples in this article use the Jest framework. There are examples using the Mocha framework and samples written in TypeScript at [the Office-Addin-Mock home page](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

## Prerequisites

This article assumes that you are familiar with the basic concepts of unit testing and mocking, including how to create and run test files, and that you have some experience with a unit testing framework.

> [!TIP]
> If you are working with Visual Studio, we recommend that you read the article [Unit testing JavaScript and TypeScript in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/javascript/unit-testing-javascript-with-visual-studio.md) for some basic information about JavaScript unit testing in Visual Studio and then return to this article.

## Install the tool

To install the library, open a command prompt, navigate to the root of your add-in project, and then enter the following command.

```command&nbsp;line
npm install office-addin-mock --save-dev
```

## Basic usage

> 1. Your project will have one or more test files. (See the instructions for your test framework and the example test files in Examples(#examples) below.) Import the library, with either the `require` or `import` keyword, to any test file that has a test of a function that calls the Office JavaScript APIs, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 3: Also not sure if it should be "to any test file" or "for any test file".
```suggestion
1. Your project will have one or more test files. (See the instructions for your test framework and the example test files in Examples(#examples) below.) Import the library, with either the `require` or `import` keyword, to any test file that has a test of a function that calls the Office JavaScript APIs, as shown in the following example.
```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Full reference documentation for the `OfficeMockObject` type is at [Office-Addin-Mock](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Addin-Scripts/tree/master/packages/office-addin-mock).

1. In the syntax of your test framework, add a test of the function. Use the `OfficeMockObject` object in place of the object that it mocks, in this case the `ClientRequestContext` object. The following continues the example in Jest. This example test assumes that the add-in function that is being tested is called `getSelectedRangeAddress`, that it takes a `ClientRequestContext` object as a parameter, and that it is intended to return the address of the currently selected range. The full example is [later in this article](#mocking-a-clientrequestcontext-object).

   ```javascript
   test("getSelectedRangeAddress should return the address of the range", async function () {
     expect(await getSelectedRangeAddress(contextMock)).toBe("C2:G3");
   });
   ```

> 1. Run the test in accordance with documentation of the test framework and your development tools. Typically, there is a package.json file with a script that executes the test framework. For example, if Jest is the framework, the **package.json** would contain the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the test in accordance with documentation of the test framework and your development tools. Typically, there is a **package.json** file with a script that executes the test framework. For example, if Jest is the framework, **package.json** would contain the following:
```

## Examples

> The examples in this section use Jest with its default settings. These settings support CommonJS modules. See the [Jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) for how to configure Jest and node.js to support ECMAScript modules and to support TypeScript. To run any of these examples, take the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The examples in this section use Jest with its default settings. These settings support CommonJS modules. See the [Jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) for how to configure Jest and node.js to support ECMAScript modules and to support TypeScript. To run any of these examples, take the following steps.
```

In some scenarios, efficient testing requires that mock objects be created or modified at runtime; that is, while the tests are running. The following are examples:

- The function that is being tested behaves differently when called a second time. You need to first test the function with one mock object, then change this mock object and test the function again with the changed mock object.
- You need to test a function against multiple similar, but not identical, mock objects. For example, you need to test a function with a mock object that has a color property and then test the function again with a mock object that has a text property, but is otherwise identical to the original mock object.

The `OfficeMockObject` has three methods to help in these scenarios.

- `OfficeMockObject.setMock` adds a property and value to a `OfficeMockObject` object. The following example adds the `address` property.

    ```javascript
    rangeMock.setMock("address", "G6:K9");
    ```

> - `OfficeMockObject.addMockFunction` adds a mock function to a `OfficeMockObject` object. The following is an example:

Reviewer 3: Something about the contextless lead-in sentence seemed off. How about this?
```suggestion
- `OfficeMockObject.addMockFunction` adds a mock function to a `OfficeMockObject` object, as shown in the following example.
```
